A multithreaded program contains two or more parts that can run concurrently.

Each part of such a program is called a thread.

Each thread defines a separate path of execution.

Thus multithreading is a specialized form of of multitasking.


process based multitasking
--------------------------

    * A process is a program that is executing

    * Thus process based multitasking is the feature that allows your computer to 
        run two or more programs concurrently.

    * For example, process based multitasking enables you to run the Java compiler 
        at the same time that you are using a text editor or visiting a web site.

    * In process-based multitasking, a program is the smallest unit of code that 
        can be dispatched by the scheduler.



thread based multitasking
-------------------------

    * In a thread-based multitasking environment, the thread is the smallest unit
        of dispatchable code.

    * This means that a single program can perform two or more tasks simultaneously.

    * For instance, a text editor can format text at the same time that it is printing, 
        as long as these two actions are being performed by two separate threads.


Thus, process-based multitasking deals with the “big picture,” and thread-based multitasking 
    handles the details.

Multitasking threads require less overhead than multitasking processes. Processes are heavyweight
    tasks that require their own separate address spaces.

Interprocess communication is expensive and limited. Context switching from one process to another
     is also costly.

Threads, on the other hand, are lighter weight.

They share the same address space and cooperatively share the same heavyweight process. 

Interthread communication is inexpensive, and context switching from one thread to the next is 
    lower in cost.

While Java programs make use of process-based multitasking environments, process-based multitasking
     is not under Java’s direct control. However, multithreaded multitasking is.


Multithreading enables you to write efficient programs that make maximum use of the processing power
     available in the system.

One important way multithreading achieves this is by keeping idle time to a minimum.

This is especially important for the interactive, networked environment in which Java operates
     because idle time is common.

For example, the transmission rate of data over a network is much slower than the rate at which the
     computer can process it.

Even local file system resources are read and written at a much slower pace than they can be processed
    by the CPU.

And, of course, user input is much slower than the computer.

In a single-threaded environment, your program has to wait for each of these tasks to finish before 
it can proceed to the next one—even though most of the time the program is idle, waiting for input.

Multithreading helps you reduce this idle time because another thread can run when one is waiting.


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
JAVA THREAD MODEL
-----------------

The Java run-time system depends on threads for many things, and all the class libraries are designed
    with multithreading in mind. In fact, Java uses threads to enable the entire environment to be 
    asynchronous. This helps reduce inefficiency by preventing the waste of CPU cycles.

Threat Priorities
-----------------

Java assigns to each thread a priority that determines how that thread should be treated with respect
     to the others.

Thread priorities are integers that specify the relative priority of one thread to another.

As an absolute value, a priority is meaningless; a higher-priority thread doesn’t run any faster than 
    a lower priority thread if it is the only thread running. Instead, a thread’s priority is used to
    decide when to switch from one running thread to the next. This is called a context switch.

The rules that determine when a context switch takes place are simple:

    A thread can voluntarily relinquish control. This occurs when explicitly yielding, sleeping, or 
        when blocked. In this scenario, all other threads are examined, and the highest-priority thread 
        that is ready to run is given the CPU.

    A thread can be preempted by a higher-priority thread. In this case, a lower-priority thread that
        does not yield the processor is simply preempted—no matter what it is doing—by a higher-priority
        thread. Basically, as soon as a higher-priority thread wants to run, it does. This is called 
        preemptive multitasking.
